README.md, before:

# OpenProject Prototype Plugin

In this plugin we try to give you an idea on how to write an OpenProject plugin. Examples of doing the most common things a plugin may want to do are included.

To get started quickly you may just copy this plugin, remove the bits you don't need and modify/add the features you want.


## Pre-requisites

In order to be able to continue, you will first have to have the following items installed:

* Ruby 2.x
* Ruby on Rails 5.x
* Node 6.x, npm and bundle

We are assuming that you understand how to develop Ruby on Rails applications and are familiar with controllers, views, asset management, hooks and engines.

The frontend can be written using plain-vanilla JavaScript, but if you choose to integrate directly with the OpenProject frontend then you will have to understand the AngularJS framework.


## Getting started

To include this plugin, you need to create a file called `Gemfile.plugins` in your OpenProject directory with the following contents:

```
group :opf_plugins do
  gem "openproject-proto_plugin", git: "git@github.com:opf/openproject-proto_plugin.git", branch: "master"
end
```

As you may want to play around with and modify the plugin locally, you may want to check it out and use the following instead:

```
group :opf_plugins do
  gem "openproject-proto_plugin", path: "/path/to/openproject-proto_plugin"
end
```

If you already have a `Gemfile.plugins` just add the line "gem" line to it inside the `:opf_plugins` group.

Once you've done that run:

```
bundle install && bundle exec rake assets:webpack
```

Start the server using:

```
bundle exec rails s
```

In the following sections we will explain some common features that you may want to use in your own plugin. This plugin has already been setup with the basic framework to illustrate all these features.

Each section will list the relevant files you may want to look at and explain the features. Beyond that there are also code comments in the respective files which provide further details.


## Controllers

The relevant files for the controllers are:

* `app/controllers/kittens_controller.rb` - main controller with `:index` entry point
* `app/views/kittens/index.html.erb` - main template for kittens index view

The controllers work as expected for Rails applications.


## Assets

The relevant files for the assets are:

* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/engine.rb` - assets statement at the end of the engine.
* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/hooks.rb` - the JavaScript and Stylesheet are included here.
* `app/assets/javascripts/proto_plugin/main.js` - main entry point for plain JavaScript and document ready hook.
* `app/assets/stylesheets/proto_plugin/main.scss` - good ol' Sass stuff.
* `app/assets/images/kitty.png` - a nice kitty image.

Any additional assets you want to use have to be registered for pre-compilation in the engine like this:

```
assets %w(proto_plugin/main.css proto_plugin/main.js kitty.png)
```

You don't technically have to put the assets into a subfolder with the same name as your plugin. But it's highly recommended to do so in order to avoid naming conflicts. For example, if the image `kitty.png` is not scoped, it might conflict with the core if it were also to include another asset named `kitty.png` too.


## Frontend

The relevant files for the frontend are:

* `package.json`
* `frontend/app/openproject-proto_plugin-app.js`
* `frontend/app/controllers/kittens.js`
* `app/views/kittens/index.html.erb`

If you want to work within the frontend's AngularJS app you will need to provide a `package.json`. Take a look at the `frontend` folder to see an example Angular controller which is used in the "kittens" index view.

Any changes made to the frontend require running webpack to update. To do that go to the OpenProject folder (NOT the plugin directory) and execute the following command:

```
npm run webpack
```


## Menu Items

The relevant files for the menu items are:

* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/engine.rb` - register block in the beginning
* `app/controllers/kittens_controller.rb`

Registering new user-defined menu items is easy. For instance, let's assume that you want to add a new item to the project menu. Just add the following to the `engine.rb` file:

```
menu :project_menu,
     :kittens,
     { controller: '/kittens', action: 'index' },
     after: :overview,
     param: :project_id,
     caption: "Kittens",
     html: { class: 'icon2 icon-bug', id: "kittens-menu-item" },
     if: ->(project) { true }
end
```

You can add nested menu items by passing a `parent` option to the following items. For instance you could add a child menu item to the menu item shown above by adding `parent: :kittens` as another option.

Menus:

* top_menu
* account_menu
* application_menu
* my_menu
* admin_menu
* project_menu

_Note: the example menu item registered in this plugin is only visible if you enable the "Kittens module" in a project under "Project settings"._

![](images/enable-kittens-module.png?raw=true | width=400)


## Homescreen Blocks

The relevant files for homescreen blocks are:

* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/engine.rb` - `proto_plugin.homescreen_blocks` initializer
* `app/views/homescreen/blocks/_homescreen_block.html.erb`

You can register additional blocks in OpenProject's homescreen in the file `engine.rb` like this:

```
initializer 'proto_plugin.homescreen_blocks' do
  OpenProject::Static::Homescreen.manage :blocks do |blocks|
    blocks.push(
      { partial: 'homescreen_block', if: Proc.new { true } }
    )
  end
end
```

Where the `if` option is optional.


## OpenProject::Notification listeners

The relevant files for notification listeners are:

* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/engine.rb` - `proto_plugin.notifications` initializer

Although OpenProject has inherited hooks (see next section) from Redmine, it also employs its own mechanism for simple event callbacks. Their return values are ignored.

For example, you can be notified whenever a user has been invited to OpenProject by subscribing to the `user_invited` event. Add the following to the `engine.rb` file:

```
initializer 'proto_plugin.notifications' do
  OpenProject::Notifications.subscribe 'user_invited' do |token|
    user = token.user

    Rails.logger.debug "#{user.email} invited to OpenProject"
  end
end
```


### Events

Currently the supported events (_block parameters in parenthesis_) to which you can subscribe are:

* user_invited (token)
* user_reinvited (token)
* project_updated (project)
* project_renamed (project)
* project_deletion_imminent (project)
* member_updated (member)
* member_removed (member)
* journal_created (payload)
* watcher_added (payload)


### Setting Events

Whenever a given setting changes, an event is triggered passing the previous and new values. For instance:

* `setting.host_name.changed` (value, old_value)

Where `host_name` is the name of the setting. You can find out all setting names simply by inspecting the relevant setting input field in the admin area in your browser or by listing them all on the rails console through `Setting.pluck(:name)`. Also have a look at `config/settings.yml` where all the default values for settings are defined by their name.


## Hooks

The relevant files for hooks are:

* `lib/open_project/engine.rb` - `proto_plugin.register_hooks` initializer
* `lib/open_project/hooks.rb`
* `app/views/hooks/proto_plugin/_homescreen_after_links.html.erb`
* `app/views/hooks/proto_plugin/_view_layouts_base_sidebar.html.erb`

Hooks can be used to extend views, controllers and models at certain predefined places. Each hook has a name for which a method has to be defined in your hook class, see `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/hooks.rb` for more details.

For example:

```
render_on :homescreen_after_links, partial: '/hooks/homescreen_after_links'
```

By using `render_on`, the given variables are made available as locals to the partial for that defined hook. Otherwise they will be available through the defined hook method's first and only parameter named `context`.

Additionally the following context information is put into context if available:

* project - current project
* request - Request instance
* controller - current Controller instance
* hook_caller - object that called the hook


### View Hooks

_Note: context variables placed within (parenthesis)_

Hooks in the base template:

* :view_layouts_base_html_head
* :view_layouts_base_sidebar
* :view_layouts_base_breadcrumb
* :view_layouts_base_content
* :view_layouts_base_body_bottom

More hooks:

* :view_account_login_auth_provider
* :view_account_login_top
* :view_account_login_bottom
* :view_account_register_after_basic_information (f) - f being a form helper
* :activity_index_head
* :view_admin_info_top
* :view_admin_info_bottom
* :view_common_error_details (params, project)
* :homescreen_administration_links
* :view_work_package_overview_attributes

Custom field form hooks:

* :view_custom_fields_form_upper_box (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_work_package_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_user_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_group_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_project_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_time_entry_activity_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_version_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_issue_priority_custom_field (custom_field, form)


### Controller Hooks

_Note: context variables placed within (parenthesis)_

* :controller_account_success_authentication_after (user)
* :controller_custom_fields_new_after_save (custom_field)
* :controller_custom_fields_new_after_save (custom_field)
* :controller_messages_new_after_save (params, message)
* :controller_messages_reply_after_save (params, message)
* :controller_timelog_available_criterias (available_criterias, project)
* :controller_timelog_time_report_joins (sql)
* :controller_timelog_edit_before_save (params, time_entry)
* :controller_wiki_edit_after_save (params, page)
* :controller_work_packages_bulk_edit_before_save (params, work_package)
* :controller_work_packages_move_before_save (params, work_package, target_project, copy)


### More Hooks

_Note: context variables placed within (parenthesis)_

* :model_changeset_scan_commit_for_issue_ids_pre_issue_update (changeset, issue)
* :copy_project_add_member (new_member, member)

Commit message:

Updated readme and made some minor improvements for the homescreen widget-box, implemented en.yml stuff.

README.md, after:

# OpenProject Prototype Plugin

In this plugin we try to give you an idea on how to write an OpenProject plugin. Examples of doing the most common things a plugin may want to do are included.

To get started quickly you may just copy this plugin, remove the bits you don't need and modify/add the features you want.


## Pre-requisites

In order to be able to continue, you will first have to have the following items installed:

* Ruby 2.x
* Ruby on Rails 5.x
* Node 6.x, npm and bundle

We are assuming that you understand how to develop Ruby on Rails applications and are familiar with controllers, views, asset management, hooks and engines.

The frontend can be written using plain-vanilla JavaScript, but if you choose to integrate directly with the OpenProject frontend then you will have to understand the AngularJS framework.


## Getting started

To include this plugin, you need to create a file called `Gemfile.plugins` in your OpenProject directory with the following contents:

```
group :opf_plugins do
  gem "openproject-proto_plugin", git: "git@github.com:opf/openproject-proto_plugin.git", branch: "master"
end
```

As you may want to play around with and modify the plugin locally, you may want to check it out and use the following instead:

```
group :opf_plugins do
  gem "openproject-proto_plugin", path: "/path/to/openproject-proto_plugin"
end
```

If you already have a `Gemfile.plugins` just add the line "gem" line to it inside the `:opf_plugins` group.

Once you've done that run:

```
bundle install && bundle exec rake assets:webpack
```

Start the server using:

```
bundle exec rails s
```

In the following sections we will explain some common features that you may want to use in your own plugin. This plugin has already been setup with the basic framework to illustrate all these features.

Each section will list the relevant files you may want to look at and explain the features. Beyond that there are also code comments in the respective files which provide further details.


## Controllers

The relevant files for the controllers are:

* `app/controllers/kittens_controller.rb` - main controller with `:index` entry point
* `app/views/kittens/index.html.erb` - main template for kittens index view

The controllers work as expected for Rails applications.


## Assets

The relevant files for the assets are:

* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/engine.rb` - assets statement at the end of the engine.
* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/hooks.rb` - the JavaScript and Stylesheet are included here.
* `app/assets/javascripts/proto_plugin/main.js` - main entry point for plain JavaScript and document ready hook.
* `app/assets/stylesheets/proto_plugin/main.scss` - good ol' Sass stuff.
* `app/assets/images/kitty.png` - a nice kitty image.

Any additional assets you want to use have to be registered for pre-compilation in the engine like this:

```
assets %w(proto_plugin/main.css proto_plugin/main.js kitty.png)
```

You don't technically have to put the assets into a subfolder with the same name as your plugin. But it's highly recommended to do so in order to avoid naming conflicts. For example, if the image `kitty.png` is not scoped, it might conflict with the core if it were also to include another asset named `kitty.png` too.


## Frontend

The relevant files for the frontend are:

* `package.json`
* `frontend/app/openproject-proto_plugin-app.js`
* `frontend/app/controllers/kittens.js`
* `app/views/kittens/index.html.erb`

If you want to work within the frontend's AngularJS app you will need to provide a `package.json`. Take a look at the `frontend` folder to see an example Angular controller which is used in the "kittens" index view.

Any changes made to the frontend require running webpack to update. To do that go to the OpenProject folder (NOT the plugin directory) and execute the following command:

```
npm run webpack
```


## Menu Items

The relevant files for the menu items are:

* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/engine.rb` - register block in the beginning
* `app/controllers/kittens_controller.rb`

Registering new user-defined menu items is easy. For instance, let's assume that you want to add a new item to the project menu. Just add the following to the `engine.rb` file:

```
menu :project_menu,
     :kittens,
     { controller: '/kittens', action: 'index' },
     after: :overview,
     param: :project_id,
     caption: "Kittens",
     html: { class: 'icon2 icon-bug', id: "kittens-menu-item" },
     if: ->(project) { true }
end
```

You can add nested menu items by passing a `parent` option to the following items. For instance you could add a child menu item to the menu item shown above by adding `parent: :kittens` as another option.

Menus:

* top_menu
* account_menu
* application_menu
* my_menu
* admin_menu
* project_menu

_Note: the example menu item registered in this plugin is only visible if you enable the "Kittens module" in a project under "Project settings"._

![](images/enable-kittens-module.png?raw=true | width=400)


## Homescreen Blocks

By default the homepage contains a number of blocks (widget boxes), namely: Projects, Users, My account, OpenProject community and Administration. You can easily add your own user-defined block so that it will also appears on the homepage.

The relevant files for homescreen blocks are:

* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/engine.rb` - `proto_plugin.homescreen_blocks` initializer
* `app/views/homescreen/blocks/_homescreen_block.html.erb`

In the file `engine.rb` you can register additional blocks in OpenProject's homescreen like this:

```
initializer 'proto_plugin.homescreen_blocks' do
  OpenProject::Static::Homescreen.manage :blocks do |blocks|
    blocks.push(
      { partial: 'homescreen_block', if: Proc.new { true } }
    )
  end
end
```

Where the `if` option is optional.

The partial file `_homescreen_block.html.erb` provides the template from which the contents of the block will be generated. Have a look at this file to get a better idea of the possibilities.


## OpenProject::Notification listeners

The relevant files for notification listeners are:

* `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/engine.rb` - `proto_plugin.notifications` initializer

Although OpenProject has inherited hooks (see next section) from Redmine, it also employs its own mechanism for simple event callbacks. Their return values are ignored.

For example, you can be notified whenever a user has been invited to OpenProject by subscribing to the `user_invited` event. Add the following to the `engine.rb` file:

```
initializer 'proto_plugin.notifications' do
  OpenProject::Notifications.subscribe 'user_invited' do |token|
    user = token.user

    Rails.logger.debug "#{user.email} invited to OpenProject"
  end
end
```


### Events

Currently the supported events (_block parameters in parenthesis_) to which you can subscribe are:

* user_invited (token)
* user_reinvited (token)
* project_updated (project)
* project_renamed (project)
* project_deletion_imminent (project)
* member_updated (member)
* member_removed (member)
* journal_created (payload)
* watcher_added (payload)


### Setting Events

Whenever a given setting changes, an event is triggered passing the previous and new values. For instance:

* `setting.host_name.changed` (value, old_value)

Where `host_name` is the name of the setting. You can find out all setting names simply by inspecting the relevant setting input field in the admin area in your browser or by listing them all on the rails console through `Setting.pluck(:name)`. Also have a look at `config/settings.yml` where all the default values for settings are defined by their name.


## Hooks

The relevant files for hooks are:

* `lib/open_project/engine.rb` - `proto_plugin.register_hooks` initializer
* `lib/open_project/hooks.rb`
* `app/views/hooks/proto_plugin/_homescreen_after_links.html.erb`
* `app/views/hooks/proto_plugin/_view_layouts_base_sidebar.html.erb`

Hooks can be used to extend views, controllers and models at certain predefined places. Each hook has a name for which a method has to be defined in your hook class, see `lib/open_project/proto_plugin/hooks.rb` for more details.

For example:

```
render_on :homescreen_after_links, partial: '/hooks/homescreen_after_links'
```

By using `render_on`, the given variables are made available as locals to the partial for that defined hook. Otherwise they will be available through the defined hook method's first and only parameter named `context`.

Additionally the following context information is put into context if available:

* project - current project
* request - Request instance
* controller - current Controller instance
* hook_caller - object that called the hook


### View Hooks

_Note: context variables placed within (parenthesis)_

Hooks in the base template:

* :view_layouts_base_html_head
* :view_layouts_base_sidebar
* :view_layouts_base_breadcrumb
* :view_layouts_base_content
* :view_layouts_base_body_bottom

More hooks:

* :view_account_login_auth_provider
* :view_account_login_top
* :view_account_login_bottom
* :view_account_register_after_basic_information (f) - f being a form helper
* :activity_index_head
* :view_admin_info_top
* :view_admin_info_bottom
* :view_common_error_details (params, project)
* :homescreen_administration_links
* :view_work_package_overview_attributes

Custom field form hooks:

* :view_custom_fields_form_upper_box (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_work_package_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_user_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_group_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_project_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_time_entry_activity_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_version_custom_field (custom_field, form)
* :view_custom_fields_form_issue_priority_custom_field (custom_field, form)


### Controller Hooks

_Note: context variables placed within (parenthesis)_

* :controller_account_success_authentication_after (user)
* :controller_custom_fields_new_after_save (custom_field)
* :controller_custom_fields_new_after_save (custom_field)
* :controller_messages_new_after_save (params, message)
* :controller_messages_reply_after_save (params, message)
* :controller_timelog_available_criterias (available_criterias, project)
* :controller_timelog_time_report_joins (sql)
* :controller_timelog_edit_before_save (params, time_entry)
* :controller_wiki_edit_after_save (params, page)
* :controller_work_packages_bulk_edit_before_save (params, work_package)
* :controller_work_packages_move_before_save (params, work_package, target_project, copy)


### More Hooks

_Note: context variables placed within (parenthesis)_

* :model_changeset_scan_commit_for_issue_ids_pre_issue_update (changeset, issue)
* :copy_project_add_member (new_member, member)
